README.md, before:

# Requirements

1. ubuntu
2. miniconda3/anaconda3

# Installation

`conda create -n similar python=3.8`

`conda activate similar`

`pip install torch==1.12.0+cu113 torchvision==0.13.0+cu113 torchaudio==0.12.0 --extra-index-url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/cu113`

`pip install -r requirements.txt`

# Scripts
## parse official coco's torch pt to torchscipt(if `ckpts/coco_yolov5x.torchscript` does not exist, run following commands)
```
cd ckpts
wget https://github.com/ultralytics/yolov5/releases/download/v7.0/yolov5x.pt
cd ..
python export.py --weights ckpts/yolov5x.pt --include torchscript
rm -rf ckpts/yolov5x.pt
```

## find similar van
```
python find_similar_van.py

pipeline:
1. cache dataset embeddings
    a. traverse all images in the dataset, for each image, do:
    b. detect amazon van by amazon_van model
    c. detect cars by coco model
    d. if the cars are detected by both amazon_van model and coco model, remove the cars in coco model's detections
    e. crop the cars of amazon_van model and coco model respectively
    f. extract the embeddings of amazon_van model and coco model respectively
    g. add all the embeddings of amazon_van/coco model to get avg_embedding of amazon_van/coco model
    h. save all the embeddings
2. inference
    a. read an image
    b. detect cars by coco model
    c. crop detected cars and extract these cars' embedding respectively
    d. traverse these detected cars' embedding, for each image's embedding, do:
    e. find the closest embedding's catrgoy
    f. output & save result
```


## find similar van v01
```
python find_similar_van_v01.py

pipeline:
1. cache dataset embeddings
    a. traverse all videos in the dataset, for each video, read it to frame, for each frame, do:
    b. detect cars by coco model
    c. crop the cars
    d. extract the embeddings of these cars
    e. save all the embeddings
    f. use k-means to obtain k different avg_embeddings
2. inference
    a. read an image
    b. detect cars by coco model
    c. crop detected cars and extract these cars' embedding respectively
    d. traverse these detected cars' embedding, do:
    e. use k-means model to predict each detected cars' category
    f. output & save result
```


## find similar van v02
```
python find_similar_van_v02.py

pipeline:
1. cache dataset embeddings
    a. traverse all images in the dataset, for each image, do:
    b. detect cars by coco model
    c. crop the cars
    d. extract the embeddings of these cars
    e. add all the embeddings to get avg_embedding
    f. save all the embeddings
2. inference
    a. read an video
    b. detect cars by coco model
    c. crop detected cars and extract these cars' embedding
    d. get the most similar det, and the similarity of the det should > thresh
    e. output & save result
```

Commit message:

1. fix bugs, 2. add find similar van v03, 3. update README.md

README.md, after:

# Requirements

1. ubuntu
2. miniconda3/anaconda3

# Installation

`conda create -n similar python=3.8`

`conda activate similar`

`pip install torch==1.12.0+cu113 torchvision==0.13.0+cu113 torchaudio==0.12.0 --extra-index-url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/cu113`

`pip install -r requirements.txt`

# Scripts
## parse official coco's torch pt to torchscipt(if `ckpts/coco_yolov5x.torchscript` does not exist, run following commands)
```
cd ckpts
wget https://github.com/ultralytics/yolov5/releases/download/v7.0/yolov5x.pt
cd ..
python export.py --weights ckpts/yolov5x.pt --include torchscript
rm -rf ckpts/yolov5x.pt
```

## find similar van
```
python find_similar_van.py

pipeline:
1. cache dataset embeddings
    a. traverse all images in the dataset, for each image, do:
    b. detect amazon van by amazon_van model
    c. detect cars by coco model
    d. if the cars are detected by both amazon_van model and coco model, remove the cars in coco model's detections
    e. crop the cars of amazon_van model and coco model respectively
    f. extract the embeddings of amazon_van model and coco model respectively
    g. add all the embeddings of amazon_van/coco model to get avg_embedding of amazon_van/coco model
    h. save all the embeddings
2. inference
    a. read an image
    b. detect cars by coco model
    c. crop detected cars and extract these cars' embedding respectively
    d. traverse these detected cars' embedding, for each image's embedding, do:
    e. find the closest embedding's catrgoy
    f. output & save result
```


## find similar van v01
```
python find_similar_van_v01.py

pipeline:
1. cache dataset embeddings
    a. traverse all videos in the dataset, for each video, read it to frame, for each frame, do:
    b. detect cars by coco model
    c. crop the cars
    d. extract the embeddings of these cars
    e. save all the embeddings
    f. use k-means to obtain k different avg_embeddings
2. inference
    a. read an image
    b. detect cars by coco model
    c. crop detected cars and extract these cars' embedding respectively
    d. traverse these detected cars' embedding, do:
    e. use k-means model to predict each detected cars' category
    f. output & save result
```


## find similar van v02
```
python find_similar_van_v02.py

pipeline:
1. cache dataset embeddings
    a. traverse all images in the dataset, for each image, do:
    b. detect cars by coco model
    c. crop the cars
    d. extract the embeddings of these cars
    e. add all the embeddings to get avg_embedding
    f. save all the embeddings
2. inference
    a. read an video
    b. detect cars by coco model
    c. crop detected cars and extract these cars' embedding
    d. get the most similar det, and the  cosine similarity of the det should > thresh
    e. output & save result
```

## find similar van v03
```
python find_similar_van_v03.py

same pipeline as "find similar van v02", but add a video result
```
